---
title: openvpn
date: '2023-04-01 19:37:57 +0000'
categories:
- openvpn
tags:
- openvpn
---


Ruuning (actually configuring more like it) has always been a pain in
the arse for me, so I've always used ready-rolled scripts in the past to
configure OpenVPN for me. So, not changing anything in my behaviour,
I've looked to Docker to provide an easily transportable solution for
me.

\[kylemanna's build\](https://hub.docker.com/r/kylemanna/openvpn/) is
one I'm trying out. Its built on
\[Alpine\](https://hub.docker.com/_/alpine/) which looks interesting
too, being a tiny OS. Below I've captured my steps so I can replay them,
with only the names changed to protect the innocent...

stop my existing openvpn server

`sudo service openvpn stop`

move the existing openvpn config out of the way...

`sudo mv /etc/openvpn /etc/openvpn.bak`

get the image

`docker pull kylemanna/openvpn`

set the env variable to store the good stuff

`OVPN_DATA="ovpn-data"`

create the volume

`docker volume create --name $OVPN_DATA`

generate the config

`docker run -v $OVPN_DATA:/etc/openvpn --rm kylemanna/openvpn ovpn_genconfig -u `<udp://CHANGEME.DOMAIN.COM>

generate keys. it will ask for the passphrase you specified in the
previous step

`docker run -v $OVPN_DATA:/etc/openvpn --rm -it kylemanna/openvpn ovpn_initpki`

crank it up as a daemon, so it autostarts

`docker run -v $OVPN_DATA:/etc/openvpn -d -p 1194:1194/udp --cap-add=NET_ADMIN kylemanna/openvpn`

### run openvpn as a service

create an init file for it and run as a normal service;

    description "OpenVPN container"
    author "Me"
    start on filesystem and started docker
    stop on runlevel [!2345]
    respawn
    script
      /usr/bin/docker start -a openvpn
    end script

### create client certificates

swap CLIENT_NAME for user name

build the client in a temp container, again passing the correct
passphrase for ca

`docker run -v $OVPN_DATA:/etc/openvpn --rm -it kylemanna/openvpn easyrsa build-client-full CLIENT_NAME nopass`

slurp out certs and stuff into a ovpn file for _secure_ tranport

`docker run -v $OVPN_DATA:/etc/openvpn --rm kylemanna/openvpn ovpn_getclient CLIENT_NAME > CLIENT_NAME.ovpn`

### Ubuntu client can't resolve hosts, but can ping ips

add the following lines to the openvpn config file you are using

    script-security 2
    up /etc/openvpn/update-resolv-conf
    down /etc/openvpn/update-resolv-conf

then run your client

`sudo openvpn --config cube-docker.ovpn`

### recreate container

for example, to update it.

1\. stop the service

`docker stop openvpn`

2\. check its dead

`docker ps`

3\. remove it

`docker rm openvpn`

4\. recreate it

`OVPN_DATA="ovpn-data"; docker run -v $OVPN_DATA:/etc/openvpn -d -p 1194:1194/udp --name=openvpn --cap-add=NET_ADMIN kylemanna/openvpn`

### old version

<strong> not using this any more, docker containers much more
convenient</strong>

I've been using the openvpn-install script from here:
<https://github.com/Nyr/openvpn-install>

As per the Readme.md file, run it once to install openvpn and then run
again to add or delete users. Very simply.

    root@remote:~/openvpn-install# ./openvpn-install.sh

    Looks like OpenVPN is already installed
    What do you want to do?

    1) Add a cert for a new user
    2) Revoke existing user cert
    3) Remove OpenVPN
    4) Exit

    Select an option [1-4]: 1